[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
I'm George Noory.
Our special guest
today is Patrick Wood.
Patrick is an
author, lecturer who
has studied elite globalization
policies since the late 1970s,
and to this day
remains a leading
expert on the elitist trilateral
commission-- their policies,
their achievements,
and what they do.
Patrick, welcome to the program.
>>PATRICK WOOD: Hi, George.
Nice to be here with you.
>>NOORY: How long have
you been studying this?
Truly since the '70s?
>>WOOD: Truly since
the 1970s, George.
It's been a long trip.
>>NOORY: It is.
>>WOOD: And I'm not
done with my mission,
apparently, because
I'm still here
and I'm still talking about it.
>>NOORY: And they're still
letting you talk about it.
>>WOOD: They're still letting
me talk about it as well.
>>NOORY: How did you
get involved in this?
>>WOOD: I ran into a
gentleman-- a professor
that had just been separated
from the Hoover Institution
at Stanford.
His name was Antony Sutton.
He was a research fellow.
And he was studying the
Trilateral Commission while
at Hoover, not realizing that
the president of Stanford
University was a member of
the Trilateral Commission.
They didn't want him studying--
especially with the
Hoover Institution--
this topic.
So they kind of forced him out.
And I ran into him at a gold
conference down in Louisiana,
kind of by chance on one hand--
I don't think it was
chance, personally.
But I ran into him
at a restaurant
at a convention
we were attending.
We struck up a
conversation, realized
that we were both kind of
looking at the same group.
This was 1977.
And before that
breakfast was done,
we had shaken hands that
we needed to tell a story,
that it was that big.
And so we started to
publish a newsletter.
We eventually
published two books--
"Trilaterals Over Washington."
And gosh, we spoke on
hundreds of radio programs
around the country, and
in-person groups, and stuff,
to try and elevate
the discussion.
>>NOORY: How many
people believe it?
>>WOOD: Well, you know,
pretty much everybody
that heard us in person believed
our material, because it
was very factual.
We only took the information
from the Trilateral Commission
itself and their own people.
We analyzed it and
wrote about that.
But as far as people who
hadn't heard us in person,
members of the
Trilateral Commission
did a very good job
of marginalizing us
as either the far
right or the far left.
>>NOORY: Or a conspiracy--
>>WOOD: They didn't
know which we were.
>>NOORY: --theorist, right?
>>WOOD: But it didn't
matter to them.
It left them always
in the modern middle.
>>NOORY: That's right.
>>WOOD: And we were
always either swept
off this way or
this way, as being
irrelevant to the discussion.
>>NOORY: Now, the folks who
are watching this program right
now have probably heard of
the Trilateral Commission.
But they may not
know what it is.
What is it?
>>WOOD: Well, it was an
elite organization, for sure,
founded by David Rockefeller
and Zbigniew Brzezinski in 1973.
>>NOORY: Aha.
>>WOOD: The membership was
drawn from Japan, North America,
and Europe in roughly
equal numbers.
There were government officials
represented, lots of--
>>NOORY: Scholars.
>>WOOD: Law firms, scholars,
multinational corporation
directors, CEOs, stuff
like that-- very wealthy,
moneyed people.
Those were kind of the
global merchants of the day.
And there was a few
press people as well,
like Time Magazine,
Newsweek, and so on,
that were part of it.
And they came
together, ostensibly,
to create a new
international economic order.
That was on their literature.
And that's ultimately
what piqued my interest.
We wrote a lot about
that back then.
What was the new
international economic order?
>>NOORY: And what was the goal?
>>WOOD: What was the goal of it?
Sutton and I didn't
really get it back then,
because we not understand
historic technocracy.
Had we understood
it and studied it,
I'm sure we would have put the
dots together at that point.
But I really didn't discover
historic technocracy
until after Professor
Sutton passed in 2002--
and picked up the trail again.
OK, this is how-- this is what
they had in mind back then.
But both Brzezinski
and Rockefeller
were kind of the cream of the
crop, the Beauty and the Beast.
Brzezinski was the brains,
and Rockefeller had the money.
>>NOORY: He was the Carter
administration, right?
At the time.
>>WOOD: He was very instrumental
throughout the Carter
administration.
But during that administration,
Carter inducted almost a third
of the US membership of
the Trilateral Commission
into his cabinet at one time.
>>NOORY: Based on
Brzezinski's recommendation.
>>WOOD: Based on Brzezinski's
recommendation, exactly.
Brzezinski was the first
appointee, by the way.
And both Carter and Mondale
were members of the commission
as well.
But Brzezinski was
the first appointee
to national security advisor.
He was the gatekeeper
to the president.
>>NOORY: He was, exactly.
Now, what is technocracy?
>>WOOD: Technocracy was an
economic system developed
in the 1930s by a group of
scientists and engineers
at Columbia University.
There was talk about
technocracy during the '20s,
but it kind of formally
got together officially,
if you will, in 1932
at Columbia University.
>>NOORY: So it's been
around a long time.
>>WOOD: It was a long time ago.
That was during the
Great Depression.
Everybody thought
capitalism was dead.
And the scientists and
engineers at Columbia
felt like it was up to
them to save the world.
So they modeled an economic
system, from the ground up,
to be a resource-based economic
system, controlled by energy.
And you have to
understand, this had never
been attempted in the
history of the world.
There had never been an economic
system developed from scratch.
>>NOORY: For the world.
>>WOOD: For the world.
But they did.
And it fizzled, I have to
say, by the end of the--
certainly by the
mid-'40s, it fizzled.
World War II is well underway,
and capitalism revived.
>>NOORY: Now was the Federal
Reserve part of any of this?
>>WOOD: Oh, it was all there
during that period of time,
still running the
capital system.
That's one of the
reasons, I suppose,
that technocracy didn't quite
make it as far as they hoped.
But it didn't.
That was a good thing.
It went underground
for a period of time
during the '40 and the '50s,
and even into the '60s.
But when Brzezinski
wrote his seminal book,
called, "Between Two Ages--
America's Role in the
Technotronic Era,"
Brzezinski was a professor
at Columbia University.
Is that a coincidence?
Maybe.
But the halls of academia
talk about stuff.
They talk about the
history of the university,
and what happened, and so on.
So there's no doubt in
my mind that Brzezinski
had an awareness of exactly
what technocracy was.
>>NOORY: Well, let's take
a look at technocracy.
>>WOOD: You bet.
>>NARRATOR:
Technocracy advocates
argue the democratic
system is unprofessional,
overly politicized,
corrupt and ineffective.
A society managed by
scientists and engineers
would be more rational
and productive.
Singaporeans handed
rule of their society
to a one-party
technocracy, and it's
an economic powerhouse with
the second-busiest port
and the third-highest per
capita income in the world.
Ukraine's outgoing
economy minister
called technocracy "the only
hope for lasting change,"
two years after the
2014 revolution,
when people were growing tired
of the slow pace of reform.
>>AIVARAS ABROMAVICIUS:
I think we really
need to use this
opportunity to bring
in a completely different set
of people with a completely
different mindset.
>>NARRATOR: In 2011,
both Rome and Athens
installed prime
ministers with expertise
in economics and finance to
drive through tough austerity
measures.
Technocracy does
have its proponents.
Pew Research shows
that while there's
a global preference for
representative democracy,
the next-best option
is a system where
experts, not elected
politicians, call the shots.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Praised as the
answer to populism
and political bickering,
more often than not,
technocracies are
temporary solutions.
Their skills complement whatever
crisis a nation is facing.
Or they act as a caretaker
until the next election.
But with democracy under
attack, can unelected experts
rescue a faltering system?
>>NOORY: Patrick,
this kind of reminds
me of a New World Order.
>>WOOD: Well, you
could call it that.
It's been called that, in
fact, now, for 45 years.
The Trilateral
Commission started off
by calling it the New
International Economic Order.
In 1992, George HW
Bush-- who, by the way,
was a member of the Trilateral
Commission, go figure--
famously said, "the
New World Order."
That was the first time a member
of the Trilateral Commission
had deviated from "New
International Economic Order."
But ever since then, people
have referred to the New World
Order.
The idea is that the New
World Order is not just
some kind of a new
political scheme,
it's a new economic
system that they're
trying to foist upon the
world that's not natural.
It's not a natural thing at all.
>>NOORY: With the US dollar
being the staple of currency.
>>WOOD: Well, the
US dollar has been.
But as we'll perhaps
cover a little bit later,
the whole idea of
financing this new system,
probably, financial
technology is
going to have a big
part to play in that.
>>NOORY: Sure will.
>>WOOD: And that means things
like blockchain currencies,
blockchain technology, other
advanced forms of payment
systems and so on.
>>NOORY: And blockchain's having
a difficult time right now.
>>WOOD: That's right.
>>NOORY: Patrick, what's going
to change with our 401(k)s?
What will happen to them?
>>WOOD: If technocracy
wins, private property
is going to be out the window.
That means, your
personal wealth--
>>NOORY: --gone.
>>WOOD: --gone.
The property that you
may own and title--
>>NOORY: --gone.
>>WOOD: --the rights
have been taken away,
where basically it's gone.
Your right to save and
accumulate money in order
to pass on to your
children and grandchildren,
there'll be no inheritance.
Basically, each generation will
be kept by itself, if you will,
cradle to cradle.
>>NOORY: What a
horrible way to live.
>>WOOD: Not a good way to live.
This is certainly not the way
that America has been developed
over the last 250 years, where
we value private property,
and the ability
to create savings,
and the ability to create an
inheritance for our children.
It's inconceivable that
any group of people
would consciously work to
destroy private property
in America that would deny
us all of those benefits
and abilities.
>>NOORY: And get away with it.
>>WOOD: And get away with it.
>>NOORY: George Soros--
is he part of this group?
>>WOOD: He was never a member
of the Trilateral Commission
directly.
Many of his policies have
played into the policyies.
>>NOORY: They seem to
be like his policy.
>>WOOD: That's right.
But we could have said
that of a lot of people.
Maurice Strong, for instance,
the famous or infamous Canadian
that was very prominent
in the United Nations--
a billionaire, but
he was very prominent
with the 1992 Earth
Summit, for instance,
that met in Rio de Janeiro.
Maurice Strong was not a member
of the Trilateral Commission.
Did he play into the policies?
Absolutely, positively.
>>NOORY: What if they were
like the puppet masters, where
maybe they were
controlling the strings?
They weren't part of the
Trilateral Commission directly,
but they're up there
with the strings.
>>WOOD: They're certainly
all on the same train track.
We can say that for sure.
I've tried to think through
the idea of a puppet master,
where somebody is
kind of pulling
all the strings individually.
This is way bigger than
that, I think, George.
It's been set in motion with
a philosophy behind it--
a religious proposition,
almost, if you will--
where this is the
standard that's set,
this is the channel
that you operate within.
Step out of it, we're
going to hammer you.
Stay within it--
>>NOORY: --you're fine.
>>WOOD: --everything's
going to be good.
>>NOORY: And leaders, too.
>>WOOD: That's right.
>>NOORY: And then you have
someone like Saddam Hussein,
who steps out of it.
Look what happens.
Gaddafi steps out of it.
>>WOOD: That's right.
>>NOORY: You know, Gaddafi was
not a Boy Scout by any means,
but he did change
toward the end.
>>WOOD: Yes.
>>NOORY: And out he went.
>>NOORY: What's their goal?
What do they want?
>>WOOD: As far as I
can tell, honestly,
I've study this
back for a long way,
even before I knew
about technocracy.
The idea that the Trilateral
Commission first started with,
which is fully in sync
with technocracy today,
is to capture the
resources of the world,
take them out of
yours and my hand,
and put them into a
global common trust,
so that they can draw
from it themselves,
but exclude-- for
themselves-- but exclude us
from having any drawing rights,
if you will, to that property.
>>NOORY: And they
would give us whatever
they wanted, like crumbs.
>>WOOD: That's basically it.
It kind of looks a
little bit like feudalism
from the dark ages, and I think
it would be as ugly as that.
But here's the thing.
Property rights, for
instance, with Agenda 21,
starting out with the
Earth Summit in 1992,
property rights have
been under massive attack
around the world, and
especially in the United States.
They wrote, plainly, in
the Agenda 21 document--
that was the United Nations
that produced that-- sustainable
development, that
private property
was a concept that
needed to go away,
that nobody needed or deserved
to own private property.
Well, that's what's
made America great.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
And emerging countries that have
duplicated what we're doing.
>>WOOD: Exactly right.
The war here is not political.
It's economic.
When you strip away the right
of people to own property,
what are they left with?
>>NOORY: Isn't that
a communistic state?
>>WOOD: It's worse than
communism, in my opinion.
It's been mislabeled communism.
Let's say both systems
are collectivist,
in the sense that
nobody's really
going to have any
say, individually,
in what they're going to do.
>>NOORY: Yet these globalists
will own all kinds of property,
won't they?
>>WOOD: That's right.
They will own and control the
major resources of the world.
And we see this in
America, for instance.
People say, well, how does
that apply in America?
Well, 36%, right now,
of American landmass
is owned by the government.
>>NOORY: That's huge.
>>WOOD: That's huge.
Why do they need to own
that kind of property?
The constitution
does not allow that.
It doesn't permit it at all.
But they own it.
And in fact, in the
West, it's even worse
than it is in the East.
And you look at a map of
Nevada, it's almost all red,
where it's owned by
the federal government.
>>NOORY: And if you go and
protest, you get arrested.
>>WOOD: That's right.
You can get arrested real quick.
>>NOORY: What's their game plan?
What do they really want here?
>>WOOD: The resources
of the world, as I said.
The way to get to it,
short of using force--
>>NOORY: Which they
would if they had to.
>>WOOD: Bringing in the
tanks, and stuff like that.
>>NOORY: Get rid of guns.
>>WOOD: And the guns,
and that kind of stuff.
Short of that, it's
basically tricking nations
into giving up their
resources voluntarily.
>>NOORY: Would you call
the Trilateral Commission
almost like a corporation,
in that these members are
a board of directors?
>>WOOD: Well, David
Rockefeller himself
called it a cabal in his
book, "Memoirs," his memoirs,
his autobiography.
And I think that's a good term.
I wouldn't call a
corporation in the sense
that it had an organization
chart, a balance sheet, stuff
like that.
But it was a cabal.
>>NOORY: Wait, is there
a chairman of the board?
>>WOOD: Well, you know,
the executive director
for many years was
Zbigniew Brzezinski.
And they've had
others since then.
>>NOORY: But he marched
to their tune, didn't he?
>>WOOD: Definitely.
Well, he was instrumental in
forming the whole philosophy
from day one.
>>NOORY: Richard Gardner wrote
a book called "The Hard Road
to the World Order."
Was he right?
>>WOOD: He was right.
Richard Gardner was an
original founding member
of the Trilateral Commission.
He's a professor--
>>NOORY: Well-intentioned?
>>WOOD: --of political science.
I don't think he was
well-intentioned.
>>NOORY: Aha.
>>WOOD: But he
came off that way.
He came off being genteel.
>>NOORY: He tricked people.
>>WOOD: But he
wrote this article,
called, "The Hard
Road to World Order,"
for Foreign Affairs
magazine, which
was the official magazine of the
Council on Foreign Relations.
And he wrote in this that the
old-fashioned frontal assault
was just not effective on
changing the system of things.
And there had been
frontal assaults
during the '40s, '50s,
and '60s, that had failed,
where the global elite flat-out
came short, they were rejected,
and they had to
start over again,
back to the drawing board.
>>NOORY: And they
hated it, didn't they?
>>WOOD: Yeah, they
didn't like that.
But when they finally woke
up and smell the coffee, what
Gardner concluded was,
we need to do an end run
around national
sovereignty rather than
trying to confront it head-on.
The end-run would chip
away, little by little,
over a period of time, to
degrade national sovereignty
to the point where it would
just disappear, just dissolve
into the ether, if you will.
And that's exactly
what happened.
It's been death by 1,000 cuts.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
>>WOOD: And we've had so
many of these little things
over the years
that have happened,
that have just chiseled,
chiseled, chiseled away
at national sovereignty.
America does not look at
all like a 1970s America.
>>NOORY: Not at all.
And it's still changing.
>>WOOD: Did we have a
Constitutional Convention?
No.
Did we have a brand
new political system?
Not really.
But it's changed,
and this is why.
>>NOORY: How realistic is
the application of control
by taking control of resources
and things like that?
>>WOOD: In my opinion, at
this point, the surprise--
if there is a surprise--
the element of control
is not direct control
of people controlling
people, people over people.
Technology has grown
up now around society
to where society is
being controlled now
by the technology
that's being used
by these people, via artificial
intelligence, via algorithms,
if you will, to make
decisions for you that you
can't get loose from.
And this whole idea, the idea
of globalization being a system,
is really the thing
that we should
be focusing on right now.
It is the system.
It's not that there is a person
that's pulling the string,
but the system that's being
built is globalization itself.
>>NOORY: Patrick, where
does China, for example,
fit into the scheme of things?
>>WOOD: China is a classic
example of technocracy.
>>NOORY: To itself.
>>WOOD: To itself.
China was brought back into the
global village, if you will,
by Zbigniew Brzezinski.
You can go back and
read the documents.
It's very clear.
Brzezinski was the point man
that brought China back in.
>>NOORY: Was Kissinger
part of that plan?
>>WOOD: Kissinger was a
little bit before that.
He was instrumental.
And Kissinger was a member
of the commission as well,
by the way.
But Brzezinski was the
guy who single-handedly,
almost, negotiated
to bring China back
into the international fold.
As he did that, the
initial investments,
the initial companies
that went to China
to build infrastructure
for them,
were all members, connected
one way or another,
to the Trilateral Commission.
It was their global companies
that went over there.
It was their global consultants
that went over there and taught
the Chinese how to do it.
Case in point,
Bechdel Engineering,
a private engineering
company, one
of the biggest in the world,
based in San Francisco.
When it was illegal to
do business in China
for American companies--
I mean illegal--
Bechdel had already conducted
18 major infrastructure programs
in China.
>>NOORY: Wow.
How do they get away with that?
>>WOOD: They skated.
The chairman of
Bechdel was a member
of the Trilateral Commission.
>>NOORY: Of course.
So they gave him the deal.
>>WOOD: They gave him the deal.
And he got deals
like that before it
was even legal to have deals.
>>NOORY: Weren't they
also huge in Saudi Arabia?
>>WOOD: They were, absolutely.
>>NOORY: Lots of money
there with the King.
>>WOOD: But here you have,
you say, well, how did China
become a technocracy?
Did somehow they get a kick
start from the Trilateral
crowd, and then they went
off on their own and said,
oh, we have some new
ideas here, we'll do this.
That's not the way
the world works.
When companies put billions
of dollars into you,
they expect results.
They expect you to do
things their way, right?
>>NOORY: Is our military
working for us or the Trilateral
Commission?
>>WOOD: That's been
questionable, George,
for a very long time.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
>>WOOD: The neocon
establishment, you
can trace it back well
into World War I, even.
The people that have
promoted war and--
because war is
profitable business.
And things get destroyed in
war that needs to be rebuilt.
There's lots of money in war.
And I wouldn't say automatically
that the Trilateral Commission
is controlling the wars
in the current age.
Although Robert
McNamara, for instance,
who prosecuted the
Vietnam War, who was also
called a technocrat of
the Ford whiz kids, right?
McNamara was a member
an early member
of the Trilateral Commission.
>>NOORY: How about Dick Cheney?
>>WOOD: Absolutely.
He was a member.
Absolutely.
>>NOORY: It's a club.
>>WOOD: It's a
club beyond a club.
It's a club with a mission.
As I said, Rockefeller
himself called it a cabal.
And he said, if that's
the charge against me,
I'm proud of it.
>>NOORY: Then so be it.
>>WOOD: So be it.
>>NOORY: What are global cities?
>>WOOD: A global
city is one that
has global trading
status with other cities,
other global cities
around the world.
These are typically
the largest cities
that we have, like
Tokyo, like London,
like New York City, Los Angeles,
Seattle, and so on, Paris.
These are the
first-tier cities that
have created an infrastructure
where they're not only
connected together, but at
multiple layers together.
You have multiple industries
within those cities
that are connecting
with each other
and these other global cities.
>>NOORY: Let's take
another look at that.
>>NARRATOR: I am alive,
vibrant with possibility,
a magnet for young
creative talent,
the engine for a
knowledge economy.
A river runs through me.
There are many tributaries
to my capital flows.
I am an urban regenerator,
a startup incubator,
a creator of new
opportunities, the catalyst
for technological innovation, a
laboratory for creative ideas.
I am ever-evolving,
fusing the ancient
with the modern, transforming
digital infrastructure,
my social networks as
diverse as my population.
I am a host to opportunity,
a home to establishment,
a seat of academic learning,
a cultural hub, a tech city,
a de-zoned mixed-use melting
pot of people and ideas.
I am a future, a millennial
possibility, a corporate HQ,
a growing business idea,
an Olympic destination,
an investment opportunity.
I am a global city.
>>NOORY: It sounds great, but--
>>WOOD: Yeah, but.
>>NOORY: And there's a big
but there, isn't there?
>>WOOD: Well, there
is a big but to this.
The core idea that's kind
of swimming underneath all
of our preconceived ideas of
nationalism, the global elite
believes that
nationalism is bad.
>>NOORY: They hate it.
>>WOOD: They don't like it.
>>NOORY: Even though they reside
in this country, most of them.
>>WOOD: Well even though
they reside-- they
have to reside in some country.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>WOOD: Maybe it's Europe.
But same thing over there,
they don't like the concept
of the nation state.
Let me tell you why.
You need to kind of think
down into their head.
The business people, the
corporate masters, if you will,
are seeking to create a perfect
supply chain around the world
for them to conduct business.
Supply chain is a concept that's
kind of matured in the last 25
years.
It's like gluing everything
together so that everything
fits just perfect.
When you are making a
car, you want that wheel
to show up at your factory five
minutes before the installer
puts it in, roll it right in--
>>NOORY: Without any delay.
>>WOOD: For anything.
So no delay, no inventory, no
warehouses, just get it there.
The supply chain is the
mantra behind everything here.
Everything's designed now
to go for the supply chain.
National governments
stand in the way
of corporations doing
what they want to do
to create the supply chain.
The nation state is
opposed, if you will.
They want to
regulate everything.
They want to get their
fingers into everything.
That's unacceptable
to the global elite.
Answer?
Do away with the concept of
the nation state, at least
effectively, for regulation.
Turn it all back over
to the corporations,
turn it back over to the
cities, turn the cities
into smart cities, if you
will, where they're all
controlled by sensors, by
algorithm, whatever and hook
the cities together in order
to form the perfect supply
chain between the cities.
Because that's where they--
>>NOORY: Worldwide.
>>WOOD: Worldwide.
That's where the
business takes place--
Paris, London, New
York, Hong Kong, Tokyo.
All these cities,
these global cities,
is where the business
takes place in the world.
So connecting them
together directly,
getting rid of all the federal
regulation along the way,
has been a goal since
the Trilateral Commission
was formed.
>>NOORY: How close are
they getting to that goal?
>>WOOD: They're very close.
At this point, there's
nothing to stop them
except for the
people themselves.
And I have to say, anybody who's
been watching the news recently
has seen the rather massive
riots taking place in Europe
with the so-called yellow vests.
The protests started
against carbon tax.
And the people
said, we've had it.
>>NOORY: Enough is enough.
>>WOOD: We've had
it with you people.
Enough is enough, and you're
not going to get away with it.
We've see this spreading to
other countries in Europe.
We saw it a little
bit in Brexit.
We saw a little bit in
the language and rhetoric
of our current administration,
with President Trump.
>>NOORY: Will the people
win in the long run?
It's a tough call, Pat.
>>WOOD: This is the question,
because by and large,
the people still
don't understand.
But when it gets into
their pocketbook,
and they start to feel the
noose around their neck,
that's when they start
kicking back and resisting.
The fact that anybody is
resisting is a good thing,
I think.
>>NOORY: As long as nobody dies.
>>WOOD: As long as nobody dies.
>>NOORY: And that
could be the next step.
>>WOOD: That's the problem.
We don't-- heaven forbid that we
would have a civil war in this
country, or anywhere
else, for that matter,
then more people would die.
You know, we can complain
about war all we want,
it's not going to
do away with war.
>>NOORY: That's right.
What are smart cities?
>>WOOD: Smart city,
by definition,
is the application
of quote, unquote,
smart technology on top
of society, within a city.
>>NOORY: It appears
great, doesn't it?
It makes you think it's good.
>>WOOD: Well, it's like
the United Nations promises
to end poverty.
They have jobs for
everyone, with dignity.
They have lifelong
learning opportunities.
You see that kind of rhetoric.
>>NOORY: Medical
help for the world.
>>WOOD: Medical
It's promise of utopia.
Can they deliver utopia?
No, they can't.
They've never been
able to deliver utopia.
But the idea of
smart cities today
is to take advanced
technology and turn the city
into a living laboratory
that could be managed--
again, by algorithm, by
artificial intelligence,
that could be managed by the
people that run the city.
>>NOORY: Now when you deal
with smart technology,
we're dealing with
what specifically?
Somebody in some computer room
somewhere, running lights?
>>WOOD: Let me give
an example in China.
China, now, has said, by 2020--
that's two years from now--
they will have installed 600
million facial recognition
cameras--
>>NOORY: Yes, everywhere.
>>WOOD: --throughout
the country.
>>NOORY: Everywhere.
>>WOOD: This is a country
that has 1.4 billion people.
>>NOORY: So almost a camera
for every two people.
>>WOOD: That's one camera
for every 2 and 1/2 people.
They could find you, from
the time the order is put out
to say, find George Noory,
we want George Noory in here
to ask him some questions.
That usually is not
a good thing, right?
>>NOORY: Not there.
>>WOOD: Not there.
But when they push the
button to find George Noory,
they can find you, they say,
within two to three minutes.
>>NOORY: Jeez.
They put my face
into the system?
>>WOOD: Yes.
>>NOORY: And then
the camera finds me.
>>WOOD: That's right.
The cameras will identify
you around the country.
>>NOORY: There he is.
He walked into his
apartment or his house.
>>WOOD: That's right.
So this kind of
complete surveillance
is a system of control.
And it doesn't just stop
there with cameras and China.
They now have this social
credit scoring system,
where they're assigning
scores to people
based on how good a citizen
you are to the state.
See, this is social engineering.
>>NOORY: As long
as you keep quiet,
you'll have a nice credit score.
>>WOOD: Well, yeah.
>>NOORY: Raise a little--
>>WOOD: If you're
friendly to the state,
and we can count on you to
always say, yes, sir, yes,
>>NOORY: We'll take care of you.
>>WOOD: That's right.
But--
>>NOORY: If you rock the boat--
>>WOOD: Well you may not even
politically rock the boat.
But let's say you have
a habit of jaywalking,
or you don't pay
your bills on time,
or you got divorced
once or something.
All these things can
weigh against you.
>>NOORY: They'll
have a point system.
>>WOOD: The point system
is all done by computer.
There's not a man sitting there
figuring out that you and I are
going to get a score.
It's all done by
computer, by algorithm.
>>NOORY: You can't buy a car--
>>WOOD: Artificial intelligence.
>>NOORY: --because
of your score,
you can't do this
because of your score.
You may not get hired
>>WOOD: Not only that,
you might not travel.
Maybe you can't buy a plane
ticket or a train ticket.
>>NOORY: Talking
about travel, I've
been to Toronto several times.
It's a gorgeous city.
Microsoft wants to turn
Toronto into a smart city.
>>NARRATOR: Smart
cities are about making
each individual part
of a city smarter
through sensors,
infrastructure, and AI,
then connecting them
altogether through the cloud
to operate seamlessly together.
>>CAMERON CARR: Once we do
that, we can solve problems
before they start, which is
really the end goal here.
>>ERIKA BASHAM: There
really is no end
to what could be enabled
with a smart city.
It's all connected
together to operate
as one cohesive unit
aimed at improving
the lives of the
citizens of the city.
>>PHIL KORETZ: So you put
sensors in your traffic lights
to help to optimize route
times and decrease congestion
at given hours.
Route optimization for your
trucks for waste disposal.
For water, you can use sensors
to measure water quality
and flow.
All of these different
technologies taken together
make for a better experience
for you as a citizen,
and make the city
government better
able to accomplish their goals.
>>MIKELE BRACK: Uplift
is an urban pilot
program that was developed
by Urban Living Futures.
There are three major
elements to those programs.
There are the cities and the
companies within those cities
that have challenges or
aspirations around technology
that innovators can
help them to address.
>>CHERYL GRAY: I think
the introduction of IoT,
it really is around trying to
create an environment where
not only our
occupants, our tenants,
our residents have an experience
that is far easier and far more
meaningful in ways that I think
we can't really even envision
today.
>>NOORY: Now it sounds
exciting, but in the hands
of the wrong people, who knows
what they could do with this.
>>WOOD: That's
exactly the point.
And privacy is completely
dissolved in a smart city.
>>NOORY: Gone.
>>WOOD: Just gone.
They will know more
about you probably
than you know about yourself.
>>NOORY: That's true.
>>WOOD: And they can use that
information to control you.
That's the problem.
That's where the resistance
kickback is coming.
In Toronto, in particular,
the Microsoft and Google
project up there to create
a smart city has encountered
incredible problems
with people--
>>NOORY: Already?
>>WOOD: --already that are
fighting back against it,
on all kinds of
different levels that you
wouldn't expect, necessarily.
But see, the problem is,
these smart city designers,
where does this stuff come from?
Are these your city council
people that come up with this?
you're mayor?
city manager?
No, it's big data.
>>NOORY: Even those
workers we just saw,
Pat, seem well-intentioned,
those people.
>>WOOD: But they
work for Microsoft,
they work for Amazon,
they work for Google,
they work for these
big tech companies--
Microsoft and whatever.
These are not elected
representatives of the people,
nor do they consult the
people on what people want
to do in their particular city.
>>NOORY: What will
happen 20 years from now
if all this is implemented?
>>WOOD: Much of it
is going to fail.
I'll say that right up front.
The whole concept of
public-private partnerships,
where you have a public entity
like Toronto combining together
with a private entity, whether
it be Google or Microsoft,
this is kind of a fascist
type of a blending, of state
into business.
When the business partnership
goes south, George,
the people can't leave.
>>NOORY: They're stuck.
>>WOOD: They're stuck.
The corporations can waltz
away and go find somebody else
to take advantage.
They leave the city with hubris.
This has happened all over the
planet with these companies--
with these large
companies that do this.
There are so many
examples that just
make your hair stand on end.
But this is basically-- the
whole concept of smart city
is, we're going to come
in and save the day.
We're going to create this
great new thing that's
never been tested
before, never been tried.
We don't know if the people
are going to like it at all.
We don't know if it's
going to be successful.
But we're going to come in a
turn your world upside down.
We hope it's going to work.
>>NOORY: What would George
Orwell have said about today?
>>WOOD: He would say
this is the end result
of a scientific dictatorship.
>>NOORY: Well, he
was right about '84.
>>WOOD: He was right.
>>NOORY: Maybe he was early.
>>WOOD: Orwell
understood technocracy.
So did Huxley.
Huxley, by the way,
wrote his book,
"Brave New World," in 1932.
>>NOORY: Way before technology.
>>WOOD: Well, you'll
remember that 1932
was the year that technocracy
was at Columbia University.
And Huxley, a Brit,
had a connection
to the president of
Columbia University.
>>NOORY: And he knew
about this, then.
>>WOOD: Absolutely.
So scientific dictatorship
has not been-- it's
not a new concept.
But you go back and you read
some of the futuristic stuff
that Huxley wrote,
and you think, man,
how did this guy come
up with this stuff?
>>NOORY: Pat, what
are they afraid of?
When I say "they,"
it's that big umbrella.
What are they afraid
of with the people?
Why did they want this control?
>>WOOD: They're afraid
of you and me, George.
They're afraid of people.
Most of this crowd has
never had any direct contact
with real people that
live in real cities
and real communities.
And when they're confronted
by people who take exception--
and I have confronted many
over the last 40 years.
When they're
confronted, they go,
I can't believe you're upset.
I don't know-- what
are you thinking?
>>NOORY: Well, they think
they are developing a utopia.
>>WOOD: Yeah.
They think, well,
of course it's good.
Why would you protest?
And for the most
part, most of them
are like deer caught
in the headlights.
They just can't believe
that anybody would not
go along with the program.
You know, I've never
quite figured this out,
but I've seen it so many times.
Back in the early writings
of technocracy, in the '30s,
they wanted to convert North
America into a technate,
they called it.
It was going to be Canada--
they had a map.
Canada, United States, Mexico,
all the Central America,
and most of the northern
part of South America.
That was the technate that they
were going to put all together.
There's not one word
I could find anywhere
and their original
information that
said how they were going to
talk these other countries
into doing it.
What, Canada's just going
to roll over and play
dead, and say, hey sure,
we'll join your technate.
>>NOORY: Right-- or Mexico.
>>WOOD: Mexico.
Are you kidding?
South America?
I mean, are we going to go in
and conquer them militarily?
But they never brought that up.
They never talked about that.
This is the problem
with Pollyanna dreamers.
They don't think things through.
>>NOORY: And you mentioned
one of the goals.
The main goal is resources.
Is there another goal,
though, behind it
with these individuals?
I mean, they put their
pants on like we do.
They cry, they eat, they sleep.
What's their end game?
>>WOOD: You could kind of
guess from it, the end game,
you could say, is
control and power.
>>NOORY: They're
bored, aren't they?
>>WOOD: But the power
comes through the control
of the resources.
This has always been the
case on Planet Earth.
You know, you go back
to Old Testament days
when Job was alive,
for instance.
Job was one of the richest
men, if not the richest man,
on Earth.
Why?
Well, he had sheep, he
had cattle, he had herds,
he had land, he had mines.
>>NOORY: He had
thousands of them.
>>WOOD: Thousands of them.
And he was a rich man.
He didn't have the Federal
Reserve in his back pocket
back then.
Just he had the resources.
That's always been
the measure of wealth.
The global elite that
wanted to get all the money
in the world-- like through
the Federal Reserve,
and chiseling off with
inflation, and so on--
they've had success with that.
Let's be frank.
They've chiseled away about
99% of the value of the dollar
since 1913, when
the Fed was created.
What's left to rip off?
Not much.
At this point, the
only thing left
to go for are the
resources of the planet.
>>NOORY: How could
this backfire on them?
What could go wrong for them?
>>WOOD: Well, when, as,
and if people figure out
the magician's trick here--
the fraud, if you will,
it could be game over.
But that's a big if,
because most people
still just absolutely don't
understand what's going on.
>>NOORY: And they
may never understand.
>>WOOD: And they may
never understand.
But on the other hand, how
much do you need to know?
In France, for instance,
the yellow vests
are upset because they
don't like the carbon tax.
Well, the carbon tax
is directly related
to what we're talking about.
This has to do with
control over energy.
It has to do with sustainable
development, which
I believe is technocracy--
>>NOORY: And money.
>>WOOD: And money.
And so they say,
no, enough of that.
Well, you could have any
number of choke points come up
in the next five to 10 years
around the world, where
people say, we're
not going to do that.
We're just simply
One headline recently
about the yellow vests
said that they have gone
out across the country
and broken 60% of the speed
trap meters on the highways.
>>NOORY: That they put in.
>>WOOD: That they put in.
This is a technocrat
control mechanism
to read license plates
and stuff like that,
take your pictures
when you're driving.
>>NOORY: Give you a ticket--
$100, $100.
>>WOOD: Right, and they
send you a ticket by mail.
The yellow vest
people got an idea.
These things are spying on us.
We've had it.
We're not going to
take it anymore.
They went out-- I don't
know what they did.
They took hammers, or
duct tape, or something.
>>NOORY: Or whatever they did.
>>WOOD: Or whatever they did.
And they deep-sixed them.
Well, I'm not necessarily
for the destruction
of private property, believe me.
But you get the point.
How much do people need
to know before they
can start to resist?
>>NOORY: And how far
can you push them?
>>WOOD: That's right.
How far can you push
them before they say, no.
>>NOORY: Who pays for all this?
>>WOOD: We do.
We've paid for it.
>>NOORY: In taxes
and everything else.
>>WOOD: That's right.
>>NOORY: That's their plan, too?
>>WOOD: Invariably--
well, let's face it,
cities in America today,
for a number of reasons,
are flat out of money.
>>NOORY: All of them.
>>WOOD: Almost all of them.
Some of them are that close
to bankruptcy right now.
It's scary.
But those cities are looking
for money to do stuff.
When a Microsoft comes
along, or a Google,
or an Amazon comes along, says,
hey, we'll help you out here.
You let us install
our high technology.
>>NOORY: It's going to cost
you this amount of money.
>>WOOD: We'll give you-- yeah.
>>NOORY: Give you a deal.
>>WOOD: You know, we'll take
a little money from you,
but you'll give us just control
over these things, and--
>>NOORY: We'll get our
fees out of the things.
>>WOOD: Yeah, we'll
charge the people.
Well, the cities
go along with it
because they figure,
nothing we can do anyway.
And they get into these unholy
relationships, most of which
I think, in the
future, will fail,
and leave the cities
doubly destroyed.
>>NOORY: I think you're right.
I think you're right.
I mean, there will come
a time on this planet
that the people will
say, enough is enough.
Far beyond what's happening in
France, they will simply say,
enough is enough.
And then what happens?
Then we have a
worldwide-- of anarchy?
What happens?
>>WOOD: I know.
That's a difficult scenario
to kind of think through.
But--
>>NOORY: And would an
army turn on its people?
I really wonder.
I spent nine years in the Navy.
If I was given an unlawful
order, I wouldn't have done it.
But what do they do when you
go to your military, your Army,
your Marines, and say, we've
got uprising in the cities.
They're looting.
They're burning buildings.
Shoot to kill.
Would they do that?
>>WOOD: Some might,
some might not.
I think we've seen military all
over the world flip-flop back
and forth between
different forces.
Certainly in the
Mid East it's been
the case, where one group is
fighting for this group today.
Next month, they represent
a different crowd.
Same military, same uniform
same guns, but they're
serving a different master.
>>NOORY: You talked about
cryptocurrencies earlier.
How prevalent do you
think they will become?
>>WOOD: Sustainable
development and technocracy
have to be financed.
The United Nations has
written extensively on this.
They claim that
sustainable development
may take as much as $50
trillion dollars to implement
over the next 20, 25 years.
That's a lot of money.
Cities don't have that money.
Countries don't have
that kind of money.
Where's it going to come from?
>>NOORY: It's going
to come from us.
>>WOOD: Well, it's going to
come from some different source.
>>NOORY: Good point.
>>WOOD: Either a different
monetary system altogether--
but something is going
to be different than what
it is today.
Most of the people in the
know at the United Nations
and in the top financial world,
the Goldman Sachs of the world
the Bank for
International Settlements,
and so on, most of these
entities say that so-called
fintech--
financial technology, advanced
artificial intelligence working
within the financial area--
that fintech is going to be
the financial tool that's
used to finance
sustainable development.
>>NOORY: Well, let's look
at what fintech really is.
>>NARRATOR: If you've ever paid
for something with your phone,
transferred money using an app,
or checked your bank statement
online, then you're already
part of a multi-billion dollar
industry.
It's called fintech, and
it's changing economies
around the world.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Fintech is short for
"financial technology."
Seems simple, right?
Well, the term, fintech,
includes a huge range
of products, technologies,
and business models
that are changing the
financial services industry.
It refers to everything
from cashless payments,
to crowdfunding platforms,
to robo-advisors,
to virtual currencies.
So every time you donate to
someone's Kickstarter campaign,
that's fintech.
Or if you transfer money
to someone using Venmo,
that's also fintech.
And that's just the beginning.
Here at a major fintech
conference in Amsterdam,
hundreds of companies are
trying to disrupt the banking
and finance industries
by changing the way we
pay and borrow money.
And investors are buying it.
Global investment in
the fintech sector
has added up to nearly
$100 billion since 2010.
In 2017 alone, fintech
investment surged 18%.
Startups focusing on payment
and lending technologies
received the majority
of those funds.
It's not just startups that
are getting into fintech.
Some of the world's
biggest companies,
from Apple to Alibaba,
are going big on it, too.
Just think of Apple
Pay or Alipay.
One reason for all of this
investment-- consumers
are adopting fintech fast.
One out of every three people
across 20 major economies
report using at least
two fintech services
in the last six months.
China and India are leading
the way, with more than half
of consumers using
services like money
transfers, financial planning,
borrowing, and insurance.
Financial technology has
filled a void for people
around the world who don't have
access to traditional banking
services.
In fact, it's estimated nearly
2 billion people worldwide
are without bank accounts.
Now, thanks to
fintech, all you need
is your phone to take
out a loan or insurance.
>>NOORY: That's amazing,
and it's happening.
>>WOOD: It is.
China is a good
example of this today.
95% of all their
commerce today is
accomplished in a smartphone
and electronic payment.
>>NOORY: I've used PayPal.
I've done that.
I bought things from
Amazon on my smartphone.
I never thought I
would, Pat, ever, ever.
And it's easy.
It's convenient.
>>WOOD: It's easy
and convenient.
>>NOORY: It's scary.
>>WOOD: But the last part of
this video that we heard here
is the key to what's
really driving this.
And this is a core part of
sustainable development slash
technocracy.
But the 1.7 billion unbanked
throughout the world that
are currently using
cash, or simply
just don't have enough money
to have a bank account, that's
a huge market for these people.
MasterCard, Visa, whatever
payment system you look at,
an average of anywhere
from 1.9% to 2.9%
is taken off of
every transaction
to service the transaction.
>>NOORY: Service fees.
>>WOOD: Right.
>>NOORY: That they pass
on to us, of course.
>>WOOD: That's right.
Now if I buy a watch from you,
and I hand you a $100 bill--
>>NOORY: There's no fee.
>>WOOD: There's no fee.
>>NOORY: They don't want that.
>>WOOD: They don't want that.
You don't make
any money on that.
>>NOORY: And they
can't track it.
>>WOOD: And they can't track it.
And even worse,
they can't track it.
So all of the unbanked world--
and it's huge in America, it's
huge in places like Africa,
and South America, and so on.
When they force these people
into the digital domain,
the digital world, they
pick up not only control
over those people
because of the data,
they pick up massive
amounts of fees.
Because every time something
is done-- click, click, click,
click--
1%, 2%, 3%, whatever--
>>NOORY: Times
billions of dollars.
>>WOOD: That's a machine
better than a casino.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
Absolutely.
>>WOOD: Every time
you pull a lever.
>>NOORY: That's why Jeff Bezos
is the world's richest man
right now.
>>WOOD: That's right.
>>NOORY: He was able to
utilize the internet.
It started off as
a book company,
selling books on the internet.
I know, because our
authors, guests on my show,
would say "you can get
my book on Amazon.com."
And you'd go there, and
that's all there were--
books.
And then he exploded.
And this Alibaba company
in China is huge.
>>WOOD: Yes, it is.
>>NOORY: Now tie
that into what we
talked about in the beginning,
the Trilateral Commission.
Talk about the
relationship between, like,
a fintech and the
Trilateral Commission.
>>WOOD: Well, a lot of people--
the probably common view
of things like Bitcoin,
and blockchain
technology, and so on
is that it was a
consumer-driven, bottom-up sort
of a thing.
And that's really not the case.
The major players today
in blockchain technology
are the big banks,
the global banks.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>WOOD: Whether it would
be JPMorgan, Deutsche Bank.
>>NOORY: Chase.
>>WOOD: Chase.
Then the global institution,
like World Bank,
Bank for International
Settlements.
>>NOORY: Are the
hedging their bets?
>>WOOD: The IMF, right?
All of these institutions
are looking at ways
to use blockchain
technology to transform
the financial system of our
planet into a digital system.
>>NOORY: And to
do away with cash.
>>WOOD: And to do away
with cash altogether.
>>NOORY: That's frightening.
Because the one thing
they can do, at a whim,
is take your digital money
from you, just like that.
>>WOOD: That's right.
If you've got cash, you've got
a couple hundred bucks on you,
it's yours.
>>NOORY: It's yours, and I'm not
going to take it away from you.
But digitally, you've got
$200 in your bank account,
and tomorrow, it's gone.
They took it.
What are you going
to do about it?
>>WOOD: Have no recourse.
>>NOORY: Nothing.
>>WOOD: Nothing.
And that's the problem.
If I could take one
of those little thumb
drives, a little 32-gigabyte
plug-and-play things
into your computer.
If I could put an
electronic wallet on that,
and say, take all of the
Bitcoin in the world, all
of the Ethereum in the world,
and put it on that chip,
theoretically, I'd be the
richest man in the world.
>>NOORY: No doubt.
>>WOOD: I have all
of this little thing.
How much more does
that thumb drive
weigh after I put all that
money on it versus before?
>>NOORY: It's all digital.
>>WOOD: Nada.
There's no weight.
There's no substance to it.
>>NOORY: There's
no expenses to it.
>>WOOD: It's just in
somebody's computer brain.
And you could be the
richest man in the world,
and if somebody had
the ability to flip
a switch on George Noory--
>>NOORY: And take it all.
>>WOOD: Well, not necessarily
take, but let's just say, turn
off your plastic.
>>NOORY: All right.
>>WOOD: Just turn off your
ability to clear anything.
>>NOORY: My cards
aren't working.
>>WOOD: Your card goes in--
declined.
Oh, I've got another one--
What's going on here?
I got all this money.
I can't do anything with it.
>>NOORY: Gone.
>>WOOD: It's gone.
>>NOORY: Control.
>>WOOD: So this kind of
thinking-- and by the way,
some people in the world
are waking up to this.
Even the Swedes-- and Sweden
started this whole idea
of cashless society--
>>NOORY: They don't like it now.
>>WOOD: The Swedes themselves
have finally concluded, what
happens if the power goes out?
>>NOORY: You've got it.
And it could.
>>WOOD: And it could.
>>NOORY: X-flare from
the sun, or an EMP attack
in the atmosphere.
>>WOOD: I know.
>>NOORY: You're power grid goes
down, your ATMs don't work,
nothing works.
>>WOOD: And you want to say
to them, well, duh, of course.
What happens when
the power goes down?
You're all just out to lunch.
>>NOORY: The great
line from the movie,
"Network," from the
anchorman Howard Beale,
"just leave us alone.
Give us our toaster,
and our television,
and our radial-cut tires.
Just please leave us alone."
That could happen,
too, where people just
want to be left alone.
So they can do anything
they want to us,
but let me stay in
my little house.
And please leave me alone.
Is that a real scenario--
leave me alone?
>>WOOD: Well, this is
pretty much an art of man,
I think, just naturally.
Like, don't mess with me.
Don't mess with my money.
Don't mess with my family, my
kids, don't mess with my wife.
Just basically leave me alone.
I think that's hardwired
into the heart of man.
When enough pressure
comes from the outside,
where people are messing
with your wallet,
they are messing
with your family,
and they're messing
with your health,
there's going to come a
point where people just say,
we're not going
to do it anymore.
>>NOORY: And Patrick,
of course, thank you
for being on Beyond Belief.
But as Howard Beale
ended that movie,
"Network," I'm not going
to leave you alone.
I'm not going to leave
you with your television,
and your radial tires,
and your toaster.
I want you to go to
your window and scream,
you're as mad as
hell, and you're not
going to take it anymore.
[THEME MUSIC]